# README
This directory contains analysis code for the paper entitled **Antenatal care coverage in a low-resource setting estimations from the Birhan Cohort**. The datasets used to conduct the analysis can be found here: XXXX

Analytical steps:
1.	1_specialize - Stata do file that creates three specialized datasets that will be later used to generate some study results.
2.	2_anc_analysis - R script that generates the manuscript results on antenatal care coverage, sensitivity analysis, quality assessment of self-reports and the alluvial plot.
3.	3_retention_analysis - Stata do file that generates results of Table 3 of the manuscript on retention in care.
    * Confidence intervals of Table 3 are generated in the script 2_anc_analysis

### Study abstract:
Antenatal care (ANC) coverage estimates commonly rely on self-reported data, which may carry biases. Leveraging prospectively collected longitudinal data, this study aimed to estimate the coverage of ANC, minimizing assumptions and biases due to self-reported information and describing retention patterns in ANC in rural Amhara, Ethiopia. This is a cohort study using data from the Birhan Health and Demographic Surveillance System and its nested pregnancy and birth cohort, the Birhan Cohort. The study population were women enrolled and followed during pregnancy between December 2018 and April 2020. ANC visits were measured by prospective facility chart abstraction and self-report at enrollment. The primary study outcomes were the total number of ANC visits attended during pregnancy and the coverage of at least one, four and eight ANC visits. Additionally, we estimated ANC retention patterns.We included 2069 women, of which 150 (7.2%) women enrolled <13 weeks of gestation with complete prospective facility reporting. Among 150 women, ANC coverage of at least one visit was 97.3%, whereas coverage of four visits or more was 34.0%. Among all women, coverage of one ANC visit was 92.3%, while coverage of four or more visits was 28.8%. No women were found to have attended eight or more ANC visits. On retention in care, 70.3% of participants who had an ANC visit between weeks 28 and <36 of gestation did not return for a subsequent visit. Despite the high proportion of pregnant women who accessed ANC at least once in our study area, the coverage of four visits remains low. Further efforts are needed to enhance access to more ANC visits, retain women in care, and adhere to the most recent National ANC guideline. It is essential to identify the factors that lead a large proportion of women to discontinue ANC follow-up.

